5 Mysteries Science Can’t Explain
Science is dedicated to solving riddles, answering
questions and generally demystifying the vast
universe.
So far, we managed to explain and understand
a lot of things.
We’ve peered into the furthest reaches of
the universe and delved into the exciting
world of atoms.
We managed to understand the basic building
blocks of life while building a civilization
capable of learning about uninhabited planets.
The last few centuries have been especially
good for science.
In the 17th century, Isaac Newton solved the
ancient controversy over the nature of forces
and motion with his three laws.
In the 18th, Ben Franklin figured out a lot
about electricity.
In the 19th, Darwin explained the diversity
of species, Maxwell revealed the physics of
light, and Mendeleyev defined the families
of chemical elements.
Finally, in the 20th century, we had Einstein,
who figured out all sorts of stuff, including
gravity.
Still, there is a long way ahead of us and
a lot of mysteries left for the 21st century
to solve.
Hi!
I am Mister Mysterious, and in this video,
we will be taking a look at some of the still-unsolved
scientific mysteries that are forcing us to
settle with mere speculations as this moment.
The Taos Hum
The town of Taos, located in the north-central
New Mexico, is a small laid-back artsy community.
However, there is a very strange phenomenon
happening here that is connecting this place
with a handful of places around the world.
The so-called Taos Hum is a low-pitched noise
that has been keeping scientists busy for
more than 20 years now.
The hum seems to have first been reported
in the early 1990s when Joe Mullins, a professor
emeritus of engineering at the University
of New Mexico, conducted research into the
Taos Hum.
Based on a survey of residents, about two
percent of the general population was believed
to be “hearers”, those who claimed to
detect the hum.
In addition, the sound was most noticeable
to hearers between 8 PM and 9 AM, and most
people plagued by this phenomenon heard the
noise at least once a week.
Sensitive equipment was set up in the homes
of several of the “hearers”, measuring
sounds and vibrations.
After extensive testing, nothing unusual was
detected.
However, the research revealed that there
was not a single identifiable Taos Hum, but
instead several different ones that people
reported; some describe it as a whir, hum,
or buzz.
This prompted scientists to believe that the
Taos Hum might be a result of subjective experiences
instead of objective sounds.
Interestingly, Taos is not the only place
plagued by unknown noises.
There are dozens of other cities in which
some residents claim to hear something strange.
Still, most of those cases get solved at one
point.
However, this is the first time that science
wasn’t even able to prove that the strange
sounds are real.
Several studies of this phenomenon concluded
that the answer to the Taos Hum mystery may
be found in the inner world of personal experience.
Even though we don’t notice it, our ears
sometimes create their own noises.
We don’t get to hear them until it’s very
quiet.
This phenomenon, called spontaneous otoacoustic
emissions, is different than auditory disorders
such as tinnitus, which causes a ringing in
the ears.
The Taos Hum was first reported more than
20 years ago, and it seems like this is going
to remain a mystery for a lot longer.
The Mummies
In 1992, a group of German scientists were
investigating Egyptian mummies and discovered
remnants of hashish, tobacco, and cocaine
in their hair, skin, and bones.
The discovery of hashish wasn’t as surprising
since it could be easily concluded that Egyptians
were in contact with nations living in Asia,
which is where hashish came from.
Tobacco and cocaine were strictly New World
plants at the time of the mummification.
This led to speculations that Ancient Egyptians
may have traveled to the New World, which
is a completely new theory that goes against
everything we know about this ancient civilization.
The tests were first thought to be contaminated.
Later, it was believed that the mummies were
fakes from where the king of Bavaria originally
bought them.
But after authentication and similar results
with other specimens, it was determined that
the unexplainable had to be the truth.
In 2011, a series of discoveries on a stretch
of the Red Sea coast once again proved the
Egyptian’s seafaring abilities.
Archaeologists found traces of an ancient
harbor that once launched early voyages onto
the open ocean.
Inside a series of man-made caves, they found
timber, rigging, limestone anchors, steering
oars, reed mats, and cedar planks.
Today, this is the strongest verified proof
of the Egyptians’ nautical roots.
Further evidence of an Egyptian journey to
the Americas comes from an intriguing discovery
in the Marble Region of the Grand Canyon.
According to the Arizona Gazette, on April
5th, 1909, the Smithsonian-funded explorers
found a variety of Egyptian-like artifacts
including stone tablets with hieroglyphs.
Still, the Smithsonian Institute has no current
records of the finding.
Perhaps it would be too inconvenient to rewrite
the history books and alter long-held traditions
such as the Columbus Day celebrations.
Silence Zone, Mexico
There is an area in northern Mexico where
radio signals don’t work, and compasses
spin out of control when placed near stones
on the ground.
It is located four kilometers from San Ignacio,
and it is known as the “Trino Vertex”.
However, this area is also known as the Silent
Zone or Zona del Silencio.
Frequently compared to the Bermuda Triangle
(both are located between parallels 26 and
28 and have similar legends), the legends
say that radio waves cannot be transmitted
through this area due to local magnetic fields.
Perhaps the best-known incident connected
to the Silent Zone happened in 1970 when a
rocket used by the US Air Force lost control
and invaded Mexican airspace.
Since the rocket was carrying two small containers
of Cobalt 57, which is a radioactive element,
a team of covert specialists was employed
to find the missing rocket.
The aerial search extended over three weeks,
but the rocket was finally returned to the
U.S.
What is interesting is that throughout the
20th century, large meteorites landed numerous
times across the Silent Zone, with two even
falling on the same ranch – one in 1938,
and another in 1954.
However, the Silent Zone became known by its
name in 1966 when Pemex, the national oil
company, sent an expedition to explore the
area.
The lead of the expedition was frustrated
by the problems he was having with his radio,
so he christened it the Zone of Silence.
Even though many believe that nothing strange
is happening in the Mexican Silent Zone, there
are too many strange events connected to this
area.
Groups of scientists are still occasionally
visiting the Silent Zone, but just like with
the Bermuda Triangle, any rational piece of
evidence is missing.
In the meantime, people come from all over
to experience the area and see for themselves
if numerous legends are true.
Stone Spheres of Costa Rica
Still considered a great unsolved archaeological
mystery, the near perfect ancient stone spheres
of Costa Rica were first found near the southern
Caribbean in the Diquis Delta, and hundreds
more have been found all over the country.
Since the 1930s, hundreds of stone spheres
have been documented, ranging in size from
a few centimeters to over two meters in diameter.
Some weigh 16 tons, and almost all of them
are made of granodiorite – a hard, igneous
stone.
These objects are monolithic sculptures made
by human hands.
Archaeologists and sciences were able to figure
out how these spheres were made.
It is believed that they were made by reducing
round boulders to a spherical shape through
a combination of controlled fracture, pecking,
and grinding.
Furthermore, the balls could have been roughed
out through the application of heat and cold.
Finally, this process would end with the spheres
being polished to a high luster.
What is interesting is that there are no traces
of metal tools, even though metal tools were
available at the time these spheres were created.
The biggest mystery that surrounds these strange-looking
objects is that no one knows their true purpose.
Many of them were found to be in alignments,
consisting of straight and curved lines, as
well as triangles and parallelograms.
One group of four balls was found to be arranged
in a line oriented to magnetic north.
This has led to speculation that the spheres
may have been arranged by people familiar
with the use of magnetic compasses, or astronomical
alignments.
It seems like we’ll never get to know the
real truth behind these stone spheres since
almost all of them have been moved from their
original locations.
Many of the balls have been blown up by local
treasure hunters who believed that the balls
contain gold.
Balls have been rolled into gullies and ravines,
or even into underwater marine locations.
Dozens of these objects have been transported
far from their zone of origin, separating
them even further from the consciousness of
the descendants of the people who made them.
The Placebo Effect
Imagine the following scenario: Several times
a day, for several days, you induce pain in
someone.
You control the pain with morphine until the
final day of the experiment, when you replace
the morphine (which is a powerful pain medication)
with saline solution (which is a mixture of
salt and water).
This happens without the patient being aware
that all of a sudden, saline solution is being
used.
Can you guess what happens?
The saline takes the pain away.
This phenomenon is known as the placebo effect.
Somehow, sometimes, a whole lot of nothing
can be very powerful.
Suddenly, the saline solution seems as powerful
as morphine.
A scientist named Fabrizio Benedetti of the
University of Turin in Italy carried out the
previously explained experiment, but he added
a final twist of adding naloxone, a drug that
blocks the effects of morphine.
The shocking result?
The pain-relieving power of saline solution
disappeared.
So, what is going on here?
Doctors have known about the placebo effect
for decades, but the experiment conducted
by Fabrizio Benedetti showed that the placebo
effect is somehow biochemical.
Apart from that, we simply don’t know anything
else.
Benedetti has since shown that a saline placebo
can reduce tremors and muscle stiffness in
people with Parkinson’s disease.
In other words, he was helping those who were
suffering from serious and damaging illnesses
using saline solution instead of using drugs.
As Benedetti says, we have a lot to learn
about what is happening here.
One thing is clear: the mind has the ability
to affect the body’s biochemistry.
Researchers now need to identify when and
where placebo works.
There may be some diseases in which it has
no effect.
As yet, we just don’t know.
Tell me in the comments section, what do you
think about these unexplained scientific mysteries?
Do you believe that there are some areas on
our planet that are influenced by mysterious
natural forces, and do you think that the
history books are telling the truth about
out past?
If you find it mysterious, share and like
this video.
Also, be sure to subscribe because you don’t
want to miss what is coming next.
As always, thank you for watching.